Upgrade sphinx and document test harness and code probes (#8253)
apple/foundationdb: documentation/sphinx/source/internal-dev-tools.rst

##################

> Internal Dev Tools

Reviewer: Internal to?

Do you mean homegrown? As in not. let's say, l/gcov & gtest

Author: Internal as in it's tools for FDB development and not tools to help develop applications on top of FDB

##################

Code Probes
===========

Code probes are a mechanism in FDB to prove that certain code-paths are being tested under the right conditions. They differ from code coverage in multiple ways (explained below).

The general format of a code probe is:

.. code-block:: C++

   CODE_PROBE(<condition>, "Comment", [annotations...]);

A simple example of a code probe could look as follows:

.. code-block:: C++

   CODE_PROBE(self->forceRecovery, "Resolver detects forced recovery", context::sim2);

On a very high level, the above code will indicate that whenever this line is executed and ``self->forceRecovery`` is ``true``, we ran into some interesting case. In addition this probe is also annotated with ``context::sim2``. This indicates that we expect this code to be eventually hit in simulation.

> By default, FDB simply will write a trace-line when this code is hit and the condition is ``true``. If the code is never hit, the simulator will, at the end of the run, print the code probe but set the ``covered`` field to ``false``.

Reviewer: It is unclear to me what 'run' refers to here. Is it one simulation test or the ensemble of tests run nightly?

Reviewer 2: `run` here refers to a single simulation test. I agree this is something we may want to clarify in the documentation here.

Author: For this and the question below, I wonder whether there's a general joshua documentation I can link to?

> By default, FDB simply will write a trace-line when this code is hit and the condition is ``true``. If the code is never hit, the simulator will, at the end of the run, print the code probe but set the ``covered`` field to ``false``.

Reviewer: By `print`, do you mean stdout? Or is this also a trace?

Author: yes. Basically test harness runs `fdbserver` and then generates a summary and writes this to `stdout`.

Author: ah sorry, this is about simulation runs, not test harness. So no, this is written to the trace files.

We expect that ALL code probes will be hit in a nightly run. In the future we can potentially use this feature for other things (like instructing the simulator to do an extensive search starting when one of these probes is being hit).

> In addition to ``context`` annotations, users can also define and pass assertsions. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to ``context`` annotations, users can also define and pass assertions. For example:
```

.. code-block:: C++

   CODE_PROBE(condition, "Some comment", assert::simOnly);

These will add an assertion to the code. In addition to that, the simulator will not print missed code probes that asserted that the probe won't be hit in simulation.

Test Harness
============

TestHarness is our primary testing tool. It has multiple jobs:

* *Running*: It can run a test in Joshua.

> * *Statictics*: It will chose a test to run based on previously spent CPU time for all tests. It does that by writing statistics about the test at the end of each run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Statistics*: It will choose a test to run based on previously spent CPU time for all tests. It does that by writing statistics about the test at the end of each run.
```

> * *Statictics*: It will chose a test to run based on previously spent CPU time for all tests. It does that by writing statistics about the test at the end of each run.

Reviewer: It would be useful to say what 'previously' spans, i.e., previous runs of a test in an ensemble, versus history of ensemble runs in a joshua installation. Also, where are the statistics written? `based on` is vague. As a test writer, I don't know how I should think about my test design given this information.

* *Reporting*: After an ensemble has finished (or while it is running), ``TestHarness`` can be used to generate a report in ``xml`` or ``json``.

Test Harness can be found in the FDB source repository under ``contrib/TestHarness2``. It has a weak dependency to `joshua <https://github.com/foundationDB/fdb-joshua>`_ (if Test Harness can find joshua it will report back about failed tests, otherwise it will just print out general statistics about the ensemble). Joshua will call Test Harness as follows:

.. code-block:: shell

   python3 -m test_harness.app -s ${JOSHUA_SEED} --old-binaries-path ${OLDBINDIR}

> Here the seed is a random number generated by joshua and ``OLDBINDIR`` is a directory path where the old fdb binaries can be found (this is needed for restart tests). If once wants to retry a test they can pass the previous joshua seed, a directory path that has *exactly* the same content as ``OLDBINARYDIR``, plus the reported statistics to the test harness app. This should then rerun the same code as before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here the seed is a random number generated by joshua and ``OLDBINDIR`` is a directory path where the old fdb binaries can be found (this is needed for restart tests). If one wants to retry a test they can pass the previous joshua seed, a directory path that has *exactly* the same content as ``OLDBINARYDIR``, plus the reported statistics to the test harness app. This should then re-run the same code as before.
```
